NCEP/EMC U.S. Gridded Gage Only Hourly Precipitation (4 km)
https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.088

Summary
This dataset contains the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP)
Environmental Modeling Center (EMC) 4 KM GRIB gage-only analysis ("GAG") data.
A prototype, real-time, hourly, multi-sensor National Preciptation Analysis
(NPA) has been developed at NCEP in cooperation with the Office of Hydrology
(OH). This analysis merges two data sources that are currently being collected
in real-time by OH and NCEP. Hourly digital precipitation (HDP) radar
estimates are created by the WSR-88D Radar Product Generator on a 131 X 131
4-km grid centered over each radar site. Data analysis routines, including a
bias correction of the radar estimates using rain gage data, have been adapted
by NCEP on a national 4-km grid from algorithms developed by OH and executed
regionally at NWS River Forecast Centers (RFC). This dataset only contains the
NCEP 4 KM GRIB Data gage-only hourly, 6-hourly, and daily analysis. 6-hourly
data are generally available at 00Z, 06Z, 12Z, and 18Z. Daily data are
generally available at 12Z. Depending on the time period selected, all three
datasets may or may not be available. Other NCEP 4 KM GRIB Data including
multi-sensor analysis (gage and unbiased radar), radar estimate, radar
estimate after bias removal, and gage-only analysis using 24h accumulated
("RFC") data are available as independent datasets. Depending on the time
period selected, all five types may or may not be available. Please see
GCIP/EOP: Surface NCEP Ancillary Catalogue of Available GCIP Precipitation
Data (NCEP/EMC). The format of the files is GRIB. The files are compressed
using the UNIX "compress" command and "uncompress" must be used before
decoding. This dataset is provided as is and was not quality controlled by
UCAR/JOSS. Beginning 1 Jan 2002, the analysis grid has been changed to conform
with the official NWS HRAP grid. File names have also been changed. See the
readme provided with this dataset for details. As of April 2017 this data
includes Alaska and Puerto Rico stations.

15 January 2020 - Data for 26 September 2019 was added when it was determined
that this date had been omitted. 31 August 2020: Start and end dates/times on
the files were updated. 7 October 2020: Stage 2 files will not be available
after 28 July 2020. 3 February 2021: Files missing from January 2002 and
January 2012 were added. Missing Data: April 4, 2019 - all data missing
September 26, 2019 - all data missing November 20, 2019 - some stage 2 and
some stage 4 missing November 21, 2019 - some stage 2 missing

Identifiers
 * Local archive identifier: 21.088
 * doi:10.26023/EH80-K7HH-7801
   https://doi.org/10.26023/EH80-K7HH-7801

Versions
  1.0

Citation
 Du, J. 2011. NCEP/EMC U.S. Gridded Gage Only Hourly Precipitation. Version
 1.0. UCAR/NCAR - Earth Observing Laboratory.
 https://doi.org/10.26023/EH80-K7HH-7801 Accessed 16 Jun 2024.

Additional citation styles can be generated by entering the DOI
at CrossCite (https://citation.crosscite.org/).

Acknowledgement
In addition to the citation reference and any other acknowledgements,
please acknowledge NCAR/EOL in your publications with text such as:

  Data provided by NCAR/EOL under the sponsorship of
  the National Science Foundation.
  https://data.eol.ucar.edu/

Related projects
 * WINTRE-MIX: Winter Precipitation Type Research Multi-scale Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/WINTRE-MIX
 * BAMEX: Bow Echo and Mesoscale Convective Vortex Experiment 2003
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/BAMEX
 * IHOP_2002: International H2O Project 2002
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/IHOP_2002
 * TORUS_2019: Targeted Observation by Radars and UAS of Supercells 2019
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/TORUS_2019
 * VORTEX-SE_2017: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
EXperiment-Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2017 Field Campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2017
 * Meso18-19: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
EXperiment-Southeast (VORTEX-SE) Meso18-19
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/Meso18-19
 * MPEX: Mesoscale Predictability Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/MPEX
 * VORTEX-SE_2018: The Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
Experiment Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2018 Field campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2018
 * ICICLE: In-Cloud Icing and Large-Drop Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/ICICLE
 * T-REX: Terrain-induced Rotor Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/T-REX
 * NAME: North American Monsoon Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/NAME
 * PLOWS: Profiling of Winter Storms
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/PLOWS
 * VORTEX-SE_2016: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
EXperiment-Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2016 Field Campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2016
 * SAS: The Southeast Atmosphere Study
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/SAS
 * IDEAL: Instabilities, Dynamics and Energetics accompanying Atmospheric
Layering
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/IDEAL
 * LPB: La Plata River Basin
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/LPB
 * CuPIDO: Cumulus Photogrammetric, In-Situ and Doppler Observations
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/CuPIDO
 * VORTEX2: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes Experiment 2
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX2
 * OWLeS: Ontario Winter Lake-effect Systems
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/OWLeS
 * SAVANT: Stable Air Variability and Transport
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/SAVANT
 * CHEESEHEAD: Chequamegon Heterogeneous Ecosystem Energy-balance Study Enabled
by a High-density Extensive Array of Detectors
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/CHEESEHEAD
 * GCIP/EOP: GCIP Enhanced Observing Period
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project?GCIP%2FEOP
 * DC3: Deep Convective Clouds & Chemistry Project
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/DC3
 * Operational: Operational Datasets
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/Operational

Additional information
 * Spatial Type: point
 * Frequency: hourly
 * Language: English

Categories
 * Precipitation
 * Surface

Platforms
 * Weather Stations

Instruments
 * Rain Gauges

GCMD Science Keywords
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > PRECIPITATION > PRECIPITATION AMOUNT > HOURLY PRECIPITATION AMOUNT

Documentation
 * katz_missing_data.txt [3 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/4219251C6E7/katz_missing_data.txt
 * katz_stage4_readme.txt [13 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/421925C0/katz_stage4_readme.txt

Related links
 * companion: 21.081: NCEP/EMC Ancillary Catalog of Available GCIP Precipitation Data 2002-
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.081
 * companion: 21.009: NCEP/EMC U.S. Precipitation Ancillary Station List
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.009
 * superceded_by: 21.006: GCIP/EOP Surface: Precipitation NCEP/EMC 4 KM Gridded Dataset (GRIB)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.006
 * info: Hourly Precipitation Analysis at NCEP/EMC
   http://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/mmb/SREF/pcpanl/

Temporal coverage
 * Begin datetime: 2001-12-31 12:00:01 
 * End datetime: 2020-07-28 11:00:00 

Spatial coverage
 * Maximum (North) Latitude: 71.413
 * Minimum (South) Latitude: 17.853
 * Minimum (West) Longitude: -176.836
 * Maximum (East) Longitude: -65.544

Primary contact information
 * pointOfContact: Jun Du <jun.du@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2568

Additional contact information
 * author: Jun Du <jun.du@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2568

Alternate metadata formats
 * DataCite: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.088?format=datacite
 * ISO/TC 211: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.088?format=isotc211
